---
title: Cutpurse
date: 2009-09-14 12:39:00
categories: Dice Games
---
Cutpurse is a dice game.
Originating in back alleys, played by thieves and other unsavory types, Cutpurse has made its way into local taverns and gambling establishments.

<strong>What you need to play</strong>
<ul>
	<li>2 dice</li>
	<li>2 or more players</li>
</ul>
<strong>How to play this game</strong>
Cutpurse is a pretty simple game played with two six-sided dice by any number of players for stakes.  Each player rolls a die, with the highest throwing first in the game and the lowest 'setting the point'.  The player with the lowest roll throws a die again, and the number rolled becomes the point number.

Each player in turn rolls the dice and scores one for every occurrence of the point number.  A player who rolls a double point number scores 3 points instead of 2. The first player to reach 11 points wins the game.

<strong>Example of game play</strong>
Player one rolls 5 with one die
Player two rolls 3 with one die
Player three rolls 2 with one die
Player one gets to go first because he rolled the highest, €˜2€² is the Set point.
Player one rolls both dice and gets 2, 4:  he scores one point
Player two rolls both dice and gets 3, 6:  he does not score
Player three rolls both dice and gets 2, 2:  he scores 3 points.
Play continues until someone reaches 11 points.

<strong>Variant</strong>
A variant of Cutpurse known as Rogue or Thief.  Rolling a double point number in this game however counts as 0 points and requires you to add a set amount to the pot.
