---
title: King's Cup
date: 2009-12-28 14:40:00
categories: Cards Drinking Games
---
A classic drinking game that evolves filling a cup (the kings cup) with random shots of liquor for the unfortunate loser of the game.
As with all drinking games the point of the game is to get drunk.

<strong>You will need</strong>
<ul>
	<li>A large cup (must be able to hold several shots)</li>
	<li>A deck of cards (jokers removed)</li>
	<li>2+ players</li>
</ul>
<strong>Set up</strong>
Place a large cup in the center of a table with cards spread around it face down.

<strong>How to play the game</strong>
Each player picks a card from the face down cards and follows the rules below.
Once done the turn order goes to the left.
Mob rules - majority always rules, if they say drink when or if you messed up, you drink.

<strong>Ace</strong>- Social, everyone drinks.
<strong> 2</strong>- Is for You, you pick someone to drink.
<strong> 3</strong>- Is for Me, you drink.
<strong> 4</strong>- Is for Whores, girls drink.
<strong> 5</strong>- Rule, make a rule everyone must follow until the next 5 is picked.  If rule is broken, that person must drink.  See below for example rules
<strong> 6</strong>- Is for dicks, guys drink.
<strong> 7</strong>- Multiples of 11, The person who picks this card begins to count.."1", the next person continues saying.. "2", and the nextplayer says.."3", and so on.  As soon as you reach 7 (whoever it lands on), the player says "F*CK YOU!" instead.  The direction then reverses (so the person who just said 6, now must say 8 and whoever said 5 says 9), and continues untill 11 is the number to be said and instead saying "F*CK YOU" and the direction again reverses.  Whoever f*cks up...DRINKS!

<strong> 8</strong>- Don&quot;t be late, a.k.a thumbs on table or points to the sky.  Whoever is the last to pick-up on the play must drink.
<strong> 9</strong>- Nines is rhyme.  The person who draws this card will say a word, then the person to the right has to say a word that rhymes with it.  This continues around the table until someone messes up.  This person has to drink.
<strong> 10</strong>- Waterfalls.  The person who picks this card has a choice of playing waterfall.  That person begins to drink.  The person next to the starter then begins to drink soon after, the player next to them begins drinking after the follower, and so on.  The trick is you can't stop drinking until the starting player stops, then each player in order can stop once the player before them has stopped.
<strong> Jack</strong> - Go Back, the person before you drinks.
<strong> Queen</strong>- Questions (my personal least favorite).  Player turns to the person next to them and asks a question (ex: Have you ever licked a donkey&quot;s butt hole?)  Then that person must turn to the next person and ask a relevant question (ex: Wouldn&quot;t a Donkeys butt hole taste like candy?) the person who fumbles drinks.  Each question must be answered with a question!!
<strong> King</strong>- This is the kicker.  Whenever a king is drawn, that person must pour however much of their drink they wish into the empty cup on the table.  The person who draws the last king MUST DOWN THE KINGS CUP!  You could see what chaos would occure with more than one deck and several diffrent types of booze!

<strong>Variations of this Game</strong>

<strong><span style="font-weight: normal;">There are lots of different variations of this game, replacing some rules with others.  Some of the more common rules that I have seen are:</span></strong>
<ul>
	<li>"
Little (Green) Man (Wee Man)" - Before a player takes a drink, he must remove a "
little man" from the rim of his cup before taking a drink.</li>
	<li>"
Don&quot;t Break the Circle" - The cards around the King&quot;s Cup must continue to make a circle around the cup through touching one another while people pull their cards on their turns.</li>
	<li>"
No First Names" - No using another player&quot;s first name.</li>
	<li>"
Aristocracy" - Whenever a player addresses another player by name, they must give them a suitable title, such as Baron or Lady.</li>
	<li>"
Drink, Drank, Drunk (3D)" - No player may say drink, drank or drunk.</li>
	<li>"
Dyslexia" - All players have their names reversed, so, for example, Tom becomes Mot.</li>
	<li>"
Numbers" - Whenever a player says a number of any type, he/she must take that many drinks.</li>
	<li>"
In My Pants" - After the conclusion of any statement, a player must say "
In My Pants" or another phrase, such as "
In my bed", "
When I&quot;m naked", "
Because I&quot;m a slut", etc.</li>
	<li>"
First Person" - No one can use any pronouns (e.g., I, my, me, mine, etc.) Very interesting when combined with the "
In my pants" rule.</li>
	<li>"
S" - Any player to say a word beginning with "
s" must drink.</li>
	<li>"
Orgasms" - Whenever someone says a certain word, the other players at the table have to fake an orgasm. The last person to do so has to drink.</li>
	<li>"
Pointing" - Often phrased something like "
Whenever I point at Ronan he must drink" or "
Whenever someone points they have to put their face on the table until the next person points".</li>
	<li>"
Polite Society" - No swearing.</li>
	<li>"
Srebmun" - All numbers must be pronounced backwards.</li>
	<li>"
Two Hander" - All drinking must be done with both hands simultaneously contacting the glass, cup, or bottle.</li>
	<li>"
Rob Lawlor" drink with left hand and with pinky in the air. Sometimes, the rule can be more general and dictate that all players may drink with their non-dominant hands only.</li>
	<li>"
Rick James" - When anyone says anything, they must end the phrase by saying "
BITCH!".</li>
	<li>"
Superheroes" - Players can&quot;t say any others&quot; names, and have to replace them with a superhero&quot;s name. One can assign them, or just make them up.</li>
	<li>"
Pirate" - All players must look into the can and say "
Aaarrrr!!" (like a pirate) before they drink.</li>
	<li>"
Fuck" - Every sentence must have "
Fuck" in it.</li>
	<li>"
Add a Drink" - Every time a drink needs to be taken, one must add one more drink to whatever amount of drink must be taken (i.e: one shot is needed, so two shots are taken)</li>
	<li>"
Righty Tighty" - One must hold his drink in his right hand until the game is over.</li>
	<li>"
Hook up Rule" - All players can only be referred to by the name of someone they have hooked up with in the past.</li>
	<li>"
Pockets" - Anyone who puts their hands in their pockets must drink.</li>
	<li>"
Chins" - Everyone must keep chins on table unless taking a drink.</li>
	<li>"
Balls" - Every time anyone takes a drink, they must act like the beer can / cup / bottle is a penis, and €˜caress the balls&quot; beneath the €˜penis&quot; as they&quot;re taking a drink.</li>
	<li>"
Eye Contact" - No person playing the game can make eye contact with another person playing the game. The consequence of this is both people must drink.</li>
	<li>"
Face-Touching" - No player is allowed to touch his own face during the remainder of the game.</li>
	<li>"
Period" - Everyone must speak the applicable punctuation for everything they say (period).</li>
	<li>"
Let it Ring" - No player is allowed to answer any cellphone or text anyone till the game is over. If caught doing so they are required to finish thier drink before the game continues</li>
	<li>"
Dress Code" - Certain items of clothing may be forbidden to be worn by any player. Bras and underwear are popular choices, especially when playing with other strip rules.</li>
</ul>
