---
layout: post
title: Dice 10,000
date: 2009-10-05 13:09
author: funvill
comments: true
categories: [Dice, Dice, game, Games, Games]
---
I have been playing this game for as long as I can remember.  It was one of the first games my parents ever taught me and its very simple to learn.
This game is most commonly known as Dice 10,000 but I have heard it called Boxcar, Foo, Zilch, and Crap Out, Greed, Farke, and Amish Dice

Everyone seems to have their own set of house rules for this game.
I have listed a few that I have used over the years. Feel free to add to the list.

<strong>What you need to play</strong>
<ul>
	<li>5 dice</li>
	<li>A sheet of paper</li>
	<li>1 or more players, its better with 2-4 people.</li>
</ul>
<strong>How to play the game</strong>
Everyone starts with a score of zero.
Everyone rolls the dice.  The person with the highest roll starts.

As he rolls during his turn, the player is looking to score points in the form of sets (see scoring below).
If a roll scores any points, he may set aside each set he wants to claim points from and either:
- roll all remaining dice hoping to score additional sets.
- or, if all five dice are put aside into sets, roll all five dice again, hoping to score additional sets.
- or pass play to the next player if he deems the chance of failure to be too great.
If a roll scores no points, the player forfeits the points scored that turn and play is passed to the next player.
If they decides to stop, the score points are tallied and added to the players bank.

a single 1:	100
a single 5:	50
triple of 1’s:	1000
triple of 2’s:	200
triple of 3’s:	300
triple of 4’s:	400
triple of 5’s:	500
triple of 6’s:	600
four-of-a-kind:	Multiply triple score by 2
five-of-a-kind:	Multiply four-of-a-kind score by 2
six-of-a-kind:	Multiply five-of-a-kind score by 2 (*Farke version)
six of 1’s:	Instant Win
three pair:	750
straight (length 6):	1500

<strong>Example of game play</strong>
Player 1 rolls all 5 dice, and gets 1,5,5,2,6 and sets a side the 1,5,5 for a total of 200 points.
Player 1 now has the choice to bank these points or continue playing.
Player 1 decides to continue playing and rolls the 2, and 6 dice.
Player 1 rolls 2 dice and gets 1, 4. he sets side the 1 for a total of 3oo points and decides to stop.
Player 1 then tallies his points up and writes them down on the sheet of papers… Player 1 now has a total of 300 points banked.
Player 2 rolls all 5 dice, and gets 2,2,2,2,3 He has a score of 400 points.
Player 2 now has the choice to bank these points or continue playing.
Player 2 decides to continue playing and rolls the 3 die.
Player 2 rolls 1 die and gets 2. He has failed to get any score sets and his turn is over… the 400 points that he got for his first roll do not count.
Player 1 rolls all 5 dice…

<strong>Object of the game (Winning)</strong>
Be the first person to 10,000 points, typically takes about 20-30 mins.
You can set a different point goal for shorter games, 5000 points for a 15min game.

<strong>House rules</strong>
Greed:  No player may stop short of 1000 points prior to entering the game.  Once a player has entered the game he or she may stop at any point value thereafter.  Also called Breaking the ice
Amish Dice:  In this variant if a player decides to stop so that points may be accumulated, the following player, only if they are on the board, may take the remaining dice and roll them to attempt to build upon the previous players points.  If a scoring set is rolled, the total is now the previous players points plus the points just rolled.  The current player has the option to stop or keep rolling.  This may continue round for any number of players.
Farke: Six dice are used and you must have 750 points or more to enter the game.
