---
layout: post
title: Par
date: 2010-02-15 16:19
author: funvill
comments: true
categories: [Dice, Dice, game, Games, Games]
---
Par is a dice game.

<strong>What you need to play</strong>
<ul>
	<li>5 dice</li>
	<li>Chips, tokens or coins.</li>
</ul>
<strong>Object of the game</strong>
To score more then 24 with five dice and eventually collect everyones chips/tokens.

<strong>How to play the game</strong>
A player rolls all five dice, if the score is above 24 everyone pays them a token for every point above 24.
For example: if they roll 26 they would receive 2 tokens from each player.

If a player rolls less or equal to 24 he may put side one or more dice and rolla the remainder.  The dice that he puts aside cannot be rolled again and you have to put at least one die aside to roll the remaining dice.

If a player rolls less then 25 after he has set sides all his dice, he pays the other player for every point below 24.
For example:  A player rolls 20 he pays 4 tokens to each player.
If a player can not pay out everyone, he hands out one token at a time to everyone starting with the player on his right.  If a player has no tokens he is out of the game.

<strong>Example game play</strong>
Player one rolls all five dice and gets 5,5,6,3,4 for a total of 23 he decides to put aside the 5,5,6 and roll the 3 and 4.
Player one rolls the two remaining dice and gets 4,6 he now has a total of 26 he decides to stop and everyone one pays him 2 tokens.
Player two rolls all five dice and gets 2,3,6,5,2 for a total of 18 he decides to put side the 5,6 and rolls the three remaining dice.
Player two rolls the three remaining dice and gets 1,2,4 for a total of 18 he decides to put aside the 4 and roll the two remaining dice.
Player two rolls the two remaining dice and gets 1,2 for a total of 18 he decides to put aside the 2 and roll the remaining one die
Player two rolls the last remaining die and gets 2 for a total of 19 (2+2+4+5+6=19) he pays everyone 5 tokens.

Play continues until one person collects everyone's tokens or chips.
