---
layout: single
title: The Three
date: 2010-07-26 15:23
categories: Dice Games
---
The Three is a dice game.
This is derived from a Chinese banking game called Strung Flowers.  As the name suggests it is played with three dice.
It is also known as Four-Five-Six, Sz&quot;ng Luk and See-Low.

<strong>What You Need to Play</strong>
<ul>
	<li>3 dice</li>
	<li>2 or more players</li>
</ul>
<strong>
How to Play the Game</strong>
Each player places a bet against the banker who covers there bet one to one.

First, the banker rolls all three dice.
If the banker rolls any of the banker combinations (see below) he collects all the bets.
If the banker rolls any of the player combinations (see below) he pays out all the players bets.
If the banker rolls a pair and any other dice, the non pair dice becomes the point dice (3,4,4 the 3 would be the point dice).

If the banker does not roll any of the combinations the dice are passed to the first player who rolls them.
If the player rolls any of the banker combinations (see below) they lose their bet.
If the player rolls any of the player combinations (see below) they win and the banker pays them out.
If a point dice has been declared and a player rolls a pair, if the players non-pair dice is higher then the bankers dice the player wins (the point dice for the banker is 3 and the player rolls 4,2,2, the players 4 is greater than the bankers point dice of 3)

<strong>Banker combinations</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Three of a kind (4,4,4)</li>
	<li>Any pair and a 6 (6,3,3)</li>
	<li>4-5-6.</li>
</ul>
<strong>Player combination</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Any pair and a 1 (1,3,3)</li>
	<li>1-2-3</li>
</ul>
All other combinations other than the ones described are meaningless.  Both the player and the banker, in their turn, continue to roll the dice until a meaningful combination comes up.
