---
layout: post
title: Three Man
date: 2010-08-02 15:34
author: funvill
comments: true
categories: [Dice, Dice, drinking, game, Games, Games]
---
3 man is a dice drinking game.
3 man is a classic game; its one of the first drinking games I ever played and it's really easy to play.

<strong>What you Need to Play</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Lots of beer, I would suggest at lest a case for each person</li>
	<li>2 dice</li>
	<li>3 or more player, it works best with 3 people</li>
</ul>
<strong>How to Play the Game</strong>
Everyone sits in a circle and takes turns rolling a die until someone rolls a three, that player become the three man.  The player on the left starts by rolling two dice and follows the instructions below.  Play continues to the left.  If on the three mans turn they roll a 3 or combinations of they are no longer the three man and may select anther player to become the new three man.

1:1 Doubles - see below
1:2 Three man drinks (sum to 3)
1:3 Three man drinks (three on die)
1:4 Thumb to table or floor (playing surface)
1:5 Index finger to side of nose.
1:6 Player to left of roller drinks (7 left/11 right)
2:2 Doubles - see below
2:3 Three man drinks (three on die)
2:4 Pass turn
2:5 Player to left of roller drinks (7 left/11 right)
2:6 Pass turn
3:3 Doubles - see below; three drinks twice
3:4 Three man drinks; player to left of roller drinks
3:5 Three man drinks
3:6 Three man drinks; Social
4:4 Doubles - see below
4:5 Social
4:6 Pass turn
5:5 Doubles - see below
5:6 Player to right of roller drinks (7 left/11 right)
6:6 Doubles - see below

Social: Everyone drinks
Doubles:  The player who rolled doubles may select another player to roll both dice and they must drink to the total of the dice.  For example: Jim rolls double 2&quot;s and assigns Sara to roll both dice, she rolls and gets 4-3, she must drink 7 times; or, you can split the dice up between two people so each person must roll their dice and drink the total of the dice.

<strong>To Condense Everything</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Total of 7	Player to right of roller drinks</li>
	<li>Total of 11	Player to left of roller drinks</li>
	<li>Total of 9	Social</li>
	<li>Any 3 or sum to 3	Three man drinks</li>
	<li>1 and 4	Thumb on floor</li>
	<li>1 and 5	Finger on nose</li>
	<li>Doubles	Give €˜em away</li>
</ul>
