---
layout: post
title: Mexico
date: 2010-01-18 15:41
author: funvill
comments: true
categories: [Dice, Dice, game, Games, Games]
---
Mexico is an elimination-style dice game.

After each round, one player is eliminated.  When all players but one have been eliminated, the remaining player wins the game.  When playing for stakes the final remaining player wins the money that was wagered by each person who was eliminated in earlier rounds.

The game gets its name from a roll of 2-1 or Mexico the highest scoring roll in the game.

<strong>What you need to play</strong>
<ul>
	<li>2 dice</li>
	<li>2 or more players.</li>
	<li>Chips or money (Suggested that you have 3 or more tokens for each person)</li>
</ul>
<strong>How to play the game</strong>
Everyone rolls one dice.  The player with the highest roll goes first (re-roll on ties).  The person to the left goes next and it continues clockwise until all players have had a turn.

The first player can roll the dice up to three times, the amount of the rolls he or she takes will determine how many rolls subsequent players may take in that round.  However, only the last result of a player’s turn counts towards his or her final score for that turn rather than the best result of two or three rolls.  Thus, it is in the first players interest not to re-roll the dice more than is necessary as doing so will give opponents more opportunities to beat his roll.

On a players turn they roll both dice and combine the value of the dice in to one number.  The higher dice use for the ten spot and the lower dice is used for the 1s.  For example, a roll of  5 and 6 would become ‘65′ , roll of 3-5 would become ‘53′ , roll of 5-5 would become ‘55′.

Whoever has the lowest score (see scoring below) at the end of the round has to put one chip into the pot.  The player that lost the last round starts the next around if they have any chips left.

<strong>Scoring</strong>
There are twenty-one different results that you can get by combining the numbers as described above.  Doubles count as higher than any mixed dice result.  A roll of 21, known as ‘Mexico’, is the highest roll that you can get in this game.

From lowest to highest
31, 32, 41, 42, 43, 51, 52, 53, 54, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, Double 1s, Double 2s, Double 3s, Double 4s, Double 5s, Double 6s, 21 (”Mexico”)
